So just to help you for the exam
and to make you understand
what kind of logging is available in AWS.
Here's a short lecture.
So basically, if you want to have compliance requirements,
there's many services that AWS provides logs for.
It could be security logs or audit logs.
So service logs will include CloudTrial
and here we can trace all the API calls
and we've done this as a hands on so we know how that works.
Config rules, where we can track the config
and the compliance over time
and we've seen this as well in the past section.
CloudWatch logs if you want to have full data retention,
so for example, want to log application logs or whatever,
we can do it there.
VPC Flow logs which is to
review the IP traffic within your VPC.
Now we haven't seen VPC for logs in detail just yet
but we'll do it a future section
and we'll see how they work.
There will be ELB Access logs for your load balancers
and they will give you the metadata
of request made to your load balancer
and we've had the chance to look at it.
CloudFront Logs which is to look at the logs
coming straight from CloudFront your web distribution
against some metadata of access
and it's going to give you the access logs.
Web Application Firewall Logs, so if you enable WAF,
then you get full logging of all the request analyzed
by the service, which is really really nice.
And the cool things is that all these logs,
you can put them in S3 and then
you can analyze them using AWS Athena.
And so that is a very common exam question.
They will say we have this log,
how can we analyze it?
How can we quickly know or explore what happen
to our ELB even though maybe your EC2 instance
were terminated and we lost logs on their machines.
Where we can use Athena plus ELB Access Logs plus S3,
and that's the combination.
So just remember that a lot of services,
and we've seen them in this course,
do provide logs, they are able to put these logs into S3,
and then we've seen how to analyze these log into S3
using Athena, so this is the idea.
If you google Athena analyze CloudFront Logs,
you'll get the query right away.
Same for ELB, same for CloudTrail, etc.
Now also, you should know that if you do put all these
audit and security logs and compliance logs
and you put them in S3, it is great to
encrypt these logs and then for the bucket
where you put all these logs,
you can control the access using IAM and bucket policies,
and even multi-factor authentication.
Finally, if you need to retain these logs
for a very long time, remember
you need to move these logs to Glacier for cost saving,
or if you need all Glacier vault log then as we've seen,
then we get compliance and saying no one can touch these
logs for maybe seven years, or whatever.
If you're more interested into, basically,
logging and security in AWS, there's a whitepaper
you can read, which is quite interesting.
But this is enough for you to understand
basically the scope of all this logging that exists
in AWS, how we can analyze it, how we should store it,
and how we should have cost saying
and compliance on top of it.
Okay, that's it for this theory lecture,
I will see you in the next one.